Your scripts will start to grow more complex and evolve.
You probably want to be able to call them just by their name and not having to type './version.sh',
because that's kind of annoying.
So we sort of did this with when you made the function, your .bash_profile or .bashrc.
So we just have it as a function.
But putting an entire script into this file isn't really going to scale that well either.
So it would be nice if we could have our script just be callable by name.
So there's a couple of ways to do that.
You don't need this--
you don't need that .sh on there.
So let's 'cp version.sh' and just call it...
ka-me-ha
me-ha!
So you can actually run that and it runs just the same because we have our shebang in there.
And then if you remember, a lot of these programs are here in /usr/bin and /usr/sbin.
But most of your homegrown files or scripts, you'll probably want to install them here.
So if you 'mv kamehameha' into
/usr/local/bin
Then you can just type it.
And there it runs just like it would any other command.
So let's actually move it back and I'll show you one other way that you can do this.
It's just as valid, but it's just another way to do it.
So I'll mv that back here
There it is.
So this this method depends on this variable here, so $PATH so this $PATH--this $PATH variable tells
your shell where to find all the commands that are available to you.
So here's all the normal spots.
/usr/bin, /usr/local/bin
And then I got all these other ones on here.
So if you do--you can modify this variable, set it equal to the current path, and then put '~'
in here and you can still run it, because now if you look at your path again, it'll look for any programs--
executable programs in your home folder.
So you probably don't usually want to do that.
You'd probably want to have like a--a ~/bin folder in your home folder if you were going to do that.
But that's just two methods you can do to actually just have your commands run like a real command and
not having to do ./scriptname.sh.
So just gives it a little bit more of that professional
feel.